# About

It's a simple real-time chat app built using a React+TypeScript+Vite template generated by Vite. I chose Vite here due to it being a better recommendation than Create React App.

## Some nice-to-have Features Included

- Dark/Light mode theme option.
- Automatic scroll to the bottom when a new message is sent/received.
- A fallback option to hit a REST endpoint to receive messages in case socket is disconnected.
- Responsive.

### Key Dependencies

Some 3rd party libraries in use:

- tanstack/react-query (allows for efficient, scalable data fetching with nice to have features for side-effects)
- MaterialUI component library
- Emotion for CSS-in-JS...also happens to be a dependency for MaterialUI.

## Running the Frontend Application

Before attempting to run the frontend application, ensure that the backend is running. Please refer to the README in the `backend` directory for instructions on how to set up and start the backend server.

### Instructions to Run the Frontend

1. **Install Dependencies**:
   Make sure you have Node.js (>14.0) and npm installed. Then, install the project dependencies by running:

   ```sh
   npm install
   ```

2. **Start the Development Server**:
   Start the Vite development server by running:

   ```sh
   npm run dev
   ```

   This will start the development server and you can access the application at `http://localhost:5173`.

3. **Build for Production**:
   Let's not kid ourselves, this is clearly not production-grade! But if you must:

   ```sh
   npm run build
   ```

   This will create a `dist` directory with the production build of your application.

4. **Preview the Production Build**:
   To preview the production build locally, run:

   ```sh
   npm run preview
   ```

======

# The following is default README from Vite's template

## React + TypeScript + Vite

This template provides a minimal setup to get React working in Vite with HMR and some ESLint rules.

Currently, two official plugins are available:

- [@vitejs/plugin-react](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react/blob/main/packages/plugin-react/README.md) uses [Babel](https://babeljs.io/) for Fast Refresh
- [@vitejs/plugin-react-swc](https://github.com/vitejs/vite-plugin-react-swc) uses [SWC](https://swc.rs/) for Fast Refresh

## Expanding the ESLint configuration

If you are developing a production application, we recommend updating the configuration to enable type aware lint rules:

- Configure the top-level `parserOptions` property like this:

```js
export default tseslint.config({
  languageOptions: {
    // other options...
    parserOptions: {
      project: ['./tsconfig.node.json', './tsconfig.app.json'],
      tsconfigRootDir: import.meta.dirname,
    },
  },
})
```

- Replace `tseslint.configs.recommended` to `tseslint.configs.recommendedTypeChecked` or `tseslint.configs.strictTypeChecked`
- Optionally add `...tseslint.configs.stylisticTypeChecked`
- Install [eslint-plugin-react](https://github.com/jsx-eslint/eslint-plugin-react) and update the config:

```js
// eslint.config.js
import react from 'eslint-plugin-react'

export default tseslint.config({
  // Set the react version
  settings: { react: { version: '18.3' } },
  plugins: {
    // Add the react plugin
    react,
  },
  rules: {
    // other rules...
    // Enable its recommended rules
    ...react.configs.recommended.rules,
    ...react.configs['jsx-runtime'].rules,
  },
})
```
